Hello and welcome and this lecture.
We're going to be spawning and damaged texts at runtime as you can see here in the inspector damage
text has been spawned by the damage text spawner and you can see it's a clone of the prefab let's dive
in and do that.
So what we've got here is the current setup of our character prefab containing ad damage text prefab.
Now this does mean that a character only has one damaged text prefab at a time and as you saw in my
demo we wants to have them pop up and disappear as we actually get damaged.
That means I'm gonna have to spawn them at runtime using a spawner.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to add a damaged text component to our damaged prefab
so that we can set things like setting the text.
We're not going to use that just yet.
We're going to put it in place just for our use later.
We want to use it as a kind of manager components for the whole prefab.
Then the next thing we're gonna do is gonna split split out.
We're not going to have the damaged text prefab directly inside that character prefab anymore instead
we're going to replace it with a damaged text spawn a prefab which itself has a damaged text spawner
component and that damaged text spawner component is going to have a reference to the prefab so that
whenever the damage text spawner says hey spawn that damaged text it will go ahead and do just that.
So first of all let's set up this damage text prefab separately.
So we are going to go ahead and create a new class I mean one to create that new class.
And we are going to create a new folder here in our scripts at the moment we don't have anything for
UI so I'm going to create a new folder.
Call it UI and inside that UI folder that's going to open up the correct one.
I'm going to create a new folder again which is going to be called damage text.
That's gonna be everything damage text related.
So in here I'm going to create a new seashells script and it's going to be called again damage text
dot c s or dot dot type this dot CSL add it for you automatically as we know.
So I'm gonna go ahead and open that and make sure this damage text is named spaced.
So it's going be in namespace RPG dot UI new stuff here DoT damage text and then paste add damage text
class right in there and we don't need start or update for our damage text at the moment it's just gonna
be an empty class and what we do want to do is remember to go into our damage text prefab and add that
component.
So let's go and add components look for damaged text and add that in that's just going to mean that
it will allow us to restrict what prefabs we want down to just the ones that have a damage text component
at the root which is what we want to do essentially so finally we want to remove this from the character
prefab so I've got the character prefab and just remove that damaged text prefab from it because it
said we are going to replace it with a new prefab I'll create an empty object and call it the damage
text spawner and we can go ahead and make a prefab of that.
So I'm going to prefab that in to UI in game create the damage text spawner prefab right in there and
that's where we're gonna be doing the rest of the work by adding a new component so we're nicely set
up for a challenge now to create the spawner create a component for this port of call it what you like
create a spawn float function so spawn takes one float which is going to be how much damage that text
should display and at the moment we don't need to use that float just have it there for later and then
we are going to spawn on start so make sure that you call that spawn function on start somewhere pause
video and have a go OK.
Welcome back.
Let's create this component.
So over in our scripts UI damage text.
I'm going to create a new C shop script called damage text spawner see Yes and let's go ahead and open
that up and in here I am going to say I've put the C S in the name again that always end up doing that.
Let's just rename it so that it doesn't have to see us in the name because that just doesn't work.
And let's put this class in the namespace as well.
So it's going to be namespace RPG dot UI dot damage text it's already there.
So we don't have to.
We've got the auto complete now.
I'm going to leave start.
I'm not going to need updates and I'm going to remove comments for both.
And then what I want to do is create a public void spawn function which takes a float.
So I said which is gonna be the damage amount and at the moment the damage mount.
We're not going to use but we are going to want to actually spawn a damaged text instance that prefab.
So we've done this sort of thing before.
We need a serialized field that points to the prefab.
So it's going to be of type damage text because that is going to be a component that is in the root
of the prefab and you could just use game objects if you want for now but later on the fact that it's
a damage text is going to be useful.
Now we're going to call this the damage text prefab to make it super clear.
This is a prefab not a link to something that already exists.
And then we can set this equal to no like so and then we can use the damaged text prefab to instantiate
a new prefab of the damaged text.
So we're gonna do this by calling instantiate we're going to use the generic version of it because we
do know that the type of our prefab is damaged text or it has a damaged text component in other words
we're going to use that serialized field that we've just set up and we're going to set the parent transform
to this particular transform on this component and then we're going to return the instantiated damaged
text so it's damage text.
I will just call this the instance that we've just created like so that we'll use later on we don't
currently need it we're just going to instantiate things like so and then finally in start I am going
to call spawn with some random damage value of 10 or something like that.
Well let's make it 11 so it really stands out.
And if we go over in that to unity in damaged text spawn a prefab can add in our component we've newly
created the damage tech spawner which needs a prefab so let's go over to core note to UI in game and
then use our damage text prefab there.
So just drag it across into the editor if you're using a newer version of Unity and you are having to
use the edits in my previous videos then just make sure that you have got your damaged text script at
the root of your prefab it might not be where you automatically put it so do check that so that you
can ensure you can drag it into the spawner here and that should mean that if we go ahead and hit play
because it's on our character remember then it spawns up those damaged text instantly on begin play
very much as it had been doing before.
So at this time it has been spawned at runtime which means that we can call that spawn function again
and again every time we get some damaged caused awesome so in this lecture we've learnt or revised how
to create instances of prefabs and we've used it for our damaged text in the next batch we'll be learning
about a new concept called unity events which really Handley allow us to hook up events in the editor
between completely random components and I'll see you there.